What is spring:
   Spring is a opensource framework for java application. it is best platform for java enterprise edition.
   Spring helps the developer to create powerful aplication using POJO class.
   It is light weight,loosely coupled.
   it gives Spring mvc, depndency injection.

What is Spring boot:
    Spring boot makes it easy to create standalone, production grade spring based applications that you can just run.
    we take opiniated view of the spring platform.

Difference btw Spring and Springboot:
    Spring is a huge framwork has many projects.
    Spring Boot is a Spring’s project
    Spring Boot provides a set of libraries that greatly simplifies development of Spring-based apps
    You can create Spring-based apps without or with Spring Boot
    Use Spring Boot is easier and more productive.

Loosely and Tightly Coupled:
   loosely coupled system has distributed memory, whereas, the tightly coupled system has shared memory.
   loosely coupled: when obj gets the obj to be used from the outside.
   Tightly cou[led: when obj create the obj to be used.main obj create the obj itself.

What is Dependency Injection:
   is a design pattern
   which obj dependent which obj
   we just inject external services

   injecting objects into other objects. It allows loosely coupled.
   Advantage:
       avoids tight coupling, unit testing will be easier one.

What is Maven:
   Maven is a build tool. If you want to create a new project in which you want to  project structure you want something that will compile
   your files u want something to test ur application and u want something which will give you required libraries.
   download the jar files for us.

Features of Spring:
   Opensource
   comprehensive tool
   light weight  (runtime polimorphism, has-a relationship->interface)
   solve problems
   frameworks of framework
   avails array of resources
   web layer, coomon layer, service layer, data layer

Features of SpringBoot:
   Web Development
   SpringApplication
   Externalized Configuration
   Security

What is the advantage of using Spring Boot?
   Spring Boot allows us to externalize our configuration so that we can work with the same application in different environments.
   Application use YAML files to externalize configuration.
   Spring Boot provides rich set of Application Properties.

Maven plugin:
   central feature of maven
   where every task is actually done by plugins. Maven Plugins are generally used to −

   create jar file
   create war file
   compile code files
   unit testing of code
   create project documentation
   create project reports
   provide a set of goals
   build,reporting plugin

What is Junit:
   JUnit is a unit testing framework for the Java programming language.
   The java programmer can create test cases and test his/her own code. 
   

What is Mockito:
   Mockito is a mocking framework, JAVA-based library that is used for effective unit testing of JAVA applications.
   In other words, mocking is a testing technique where mock objects are used instead of real objects for testing purposes.
   Mock objects provide a specific (dummy) output for a particular (dummy) input passed to it.


What is Unit Testing:
   UNIT TESTING is a type of software testing where individual units or components of a software are tested. 
   The purpose is to validate that each unit of the software code performs as expected.

What is code quality:
   checking the quality of the code whether the code is good or bad.

What is Spring MVC:



What is Spring REST:



What is Spring Security:


Annotations:









