1. Why spring is special?
      because of dependency injection or Iversion of control(IOC). 
      we dont need to create object using classname, instead we can use autowired for dependency injection.
public class ClientBOImpl im[plements ClientBO {
      @Autiwired
      ProductDO productDO;

      productDO = new ClientBOImpl;
}

     It gives integration with other frameworks.
     it provide the flexibility.

2.jdk,jre,jvm:
JDK:
Java developement kit-> It is a software developement kit to develop a java program/application.
jdk contains jre and debugger,compiler,javadoc,keytool.

JRE:
Java Runtime Environment-> is used to run java program.platform independent.it contains JVM and class libraries.dont have compiler so it can only run a java program in anywhere any machine.

JVM:
Java Virtual Machine-> it is used to convert a bite code to machine code.platform dependent.

3.Why java is not a pure object oriented laguage?
pre defined data types are not objects in java.

7.why main() method in java is public static?
Static:
jvm loads classes so it load the static class.
static doesnt need the class to create object.jvm can load the class without creating instance of a class.

if main method is non-static then jvm confuses which constructor to be called.it will create a ambiguity.

Public:
We all know that anyone can access public access modifier. if the main method is pubic then only JVM can call it otherwise don't.

8.Can we overload main() in java?

Yes, We can overload main() method in java.
Jvm search for the String[] args method so there is no ambiguity problem occur.

Main method have a signature of
 public static  void(String[] args)

9.Can we declare a main method other than public?
 No, We cannot. Because, main() method should be accesible to JVM.
It will show runtime error if we put as private ,protected, default.

10.can we declare main() method as non static?
No, We can't. if we remove the ststic from main method then the compilation will successful but throw the runtime error.

11. Can the main method have differet arguments?
No, only can have String[] args or No-args(nothing but array String... args

12.can we run java program without main mathod?
No, from java 7 we cannot run java program without main method.
before java release we had static initializer as an alternative.

public class MainDemo{
  static{
      System.out.println("Static Initializer");
      System.exit(0);
  }
}

13.can we use different return type other than void in main method?
No, We can't.

14.Can we have main method as final?
Yes, we can have main() method as final.
public static final void main(String[] args)
we canot override the main method.

Java Array interview questions and answers:

15.

String questions:

25.What is string in java?
      String is sequence of characters. String is an object.
      It is immutable, once string object created then we cannot modify them.
      String objects are stored in heap memory.

26.What are the ways to create Strings?
      there are 2 ways to create strings.
    1. String Literals
         String str = "Hello";
    2. new keyword
         String str = new String("Hello");

27.What is string constant pool?

      String str1 = "Hello";
      String str2 = new String("Hello");
      String str3 = "Hello";
    
    String created by using literals are stored in String constant pool in heap memory.
    str1 and 3 are having same word 1st str1 stored in string pool 
      then str3 is stored and then not storing it then return the reference to the instance.

28.Strings are thread safe?
      yes. strings are immutable that means constants. when multiple threads try to access a method string that remain constant is called thread safe.
      strinng is thread safe.

29.difference btw == and equals() ?
       == is an operator
       equals() is a method.

       == is check the address of the 2 variable.
       equals() checks the value of the 2 variable

30.What is muttable and immutable?
      muttable: mutable objects can be changed after its created.
      immutable: immutable objects cannot be changed after its created.
                  string immutable injava, we can chANGE the object as immutable using final and private keywords.

31.Diference btw String and StringBuilder?
      String is immutable                      SB is mutable
      thread safe                              not thread safe
      slow incase of multiple concadanation    fast
      consume more memory (create new obj)
32.Diference btw String and StringBuffer?
      String is immutable     SB is mutable
      string pool memory       heap memory
      
33.Difference btw StringBuilder and StringBuffer?
       not thread safe                thread safe
       faster                         slow in case of thread safe

34. What does the string intern() method do?

    If you want to store the string obj in string pool you can use intern method.
      String s1= "abc";
      String s2= new String("abc");
      String s3= s2.intern();
      s1==s3 true.

35.why does String is popular key for hasmap?
      string is immutable. on the time of object creation hashcode is calculated so there is no need to calculate it again and again.

36.Difference btw List and Set:

    List                                                                   Set
    contains duplicates values                                      not allow duplicate values
    ordered collections, follow insertion order                     unordered collection, follow random order.
    list implementations are: arrayList,LinkedList,                 set implementations are: hashSet, LinkedHashSet,TreeHashSet....
    vector,stack.
    can have multiple null values                                   can have one null value at max.


37.
                             

    
 











