
Simple present:

Subject + Verb (v1/present)

I go
you go
we go
he go
she goes
it goes
they go

Habbits and routines:

I drink coffee every morning.
sun rises every morning
sudhi goes to the beach on sundays
childern often play games after school.

Facts

she works as a teacher.
you sing very well
water boils at 100 degree C.

Present continuous:

Subject + am/is/are + verb + ing

Actions happening now(at the time of speaking):

I am drinking coffee right now.
It is raining outside.
we are having brekfast.

Temporary Activities:

Arun is learning to play the quitar.
I am watching a really intresting TV series at the moment.
my sister is staying with us for a couple of weeks.

Changes taking places now:

english lessons on youtube are becoming very popular these days.
the price of tomato is increasing .
the price of crude oil is falling rapidly
scientists say that the earth is getting warmer.

Past simple:

Subject + verb2

Completed actions in the past:

I played soccer with my friends last saturday.
Swara gave us a present for our wedding anniversary.
we received the package this morning
my grandfather built this house in 1968
ahmed lived in malasia for five years.

Past continuous:

Form: Subject + was/were + verb+ing

Unfinished, ongoing action in the past (+finished action)

I was having dinner with my family when the doorbell rang.
It was raining when priya left for work
the power went out while the children were playing
while we were waiting at the bus stop, we saw a car accident.

Present perfect:

Form : Subject + have/has + verb3

Experiences :
continuing 
if its over then use simple past

I have taught english to many students in my career
past: I taught english to many students when i was a teacher.

Ashley has visited france four times.
past : Ashley visited frsnce in 2015.

We have watched two movies this week
past : We watched 2 movies last week.

Recent actions or events:

if we want to mention specific time we use simple past.

I have finished my homework
no mention of the time

Arthur has lost his glasses
now he does not have his glass

The police have arrested a young man in connection with the robbery.

if we want to mention specific time we use simple past.

I finished my homework at 6.30.
Arthur lost his glasses at the party.
The police arrested a young man last night in connection with the robbery.

6.Present perfect continuous:

Form : Subject + have/has + been + verb+ing

Actions that started in the past and are still continuing:

I have been waiting to see the doctor for two hours / since 5pm
He has been playing soccer since he was a child / for 20 years.
she has been learning english for eight months / since last October.
We have been living in this town for a very long time / since 1980.
It has been raining all morning / since 5am.

7.Past perfect :

Form : Subject had been verb+ing

The first past action (when there are two or more past actions)

1 happened first. 2 happened second.

2 past tenses in one sentence.
When we got to the theater(1), the movie started(2).

When we got to the theater(2), the movie had started(1).
I was sick(2) because I had eaten too much the previous night(1).
The girl looked very familiar(2). I had seen her somewhere before(1).
Joel rushed to his boss's office(2), but she had gone home already(1).

8. Past Perfect Continuous:

It is used to talk about continuous action in the past before another finished action.

Form : Subject + had + been + verb+ing

The first (continuous) past action

I felt really tired because I had been driving all day.
She had been waiting for twoo hours when the doctor finally arrived.  (finally the doc came so its finished statement)
The groung was wet because it had been raining.
When he quit his job  at the factory, he had been working there for 12 years.







